PKI External CA DNS feature updates (#2656)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/vault/v2.x/content/api-docs/secret/pki-external-ca.mdx

List all configured DNS providers across all provider types.

| Method | Path                                  |
|:-------|:--------------------------------------|
| `LIST` | `/{plugin_mount_path}/config/dns`     |

#### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl                                        \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ${VAULT_TOKEN}"  \
    --request LIST                            \
    ${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/pki-external-ca/config/dns
```

#### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "keys": [
      "aws-route53/production",
      "azure-dns/staging"
    ],
    "key_info": {
      "aws-route53/production": {
        "name": "production",
        "type": "aws-route53"
      },
      "azure-dns/staging": {
        "name": "staging",
        "type": "azure-dns"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### AWS Route53 DNS provider

Configure AWS Route53 as a DNS provider for DNS-01 ACME challenges.

#### Create/update AWS Route53 configuration

| Method | Path                                                      |
|:-------|:----------------------------------------------------------|
| `POST` | `/{plugin_mount_path}/config/dns/aws-route53/:name`       |

##### Parameters

> - `name` `(string: <required>)` - Unique name for this DNS provider configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `name` `(string: <required>)` - Unique name for the DNS provider configuration.
```

> - `identifiers` `(array<string>: <required>)` - List of DNS identifiers (domain names) this provider can manage. Supports wildcard patterns with leftmost asterisk (e.g., `*.example.com`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `identifiers` `(array<string>: <required>)` - List of DNS identifiers (domain names) the provider can manage. Supports wildcard patterns with leftmost asterisk (e.g., `*.example.com`).
```

> - `access_key_id` `(string: "")` - AWS access key ID for Route53 API access. Optional if using IAM role assumption or instance profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `access_key_id` `(string: "")` - AWS access key ID for Route53 API access.
  The access key ID is optional if you use IAM role assumption or instance profiles.
```

> - `secret_access_key` `(string: "")` - AWS secret access key for Route53 API access. Optional if using IAM role assumption or instance profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `access_key_id` `(string: "")` - AWS access key ID for Route53 API access.
  Optional with IAM role assumption or instance profiles.
```

Author: I manually corrected this entry to what I believe you wanted to update which was the Optional with IAM.. to match the correction you did for access_key_id.

> - `region` `(string: "us-east-1")` - AWS region for Route53 operations. Optional.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `region` `(string: "us-east-1")` - AWS region for Route53 operations.
```
All fields are optional unless designated as required

> - `hosted_zone_id` `(string: "")` - AWS Route53 hosted zone ID. Optional.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `hosted_zone_id` `(string: "")` - AWS Route53 hosted zone ID.
```

> - `external_id` `(string: "")` - External ID for AWS STS AssumeRole. Optional.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `external_id` `(string: "")` - External ID for AWS STS AssumeRole.
```

> - `assume_role_arn` `(string: "")` - AWS IAM role ARN to assume for Route53 operations. Optional.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `assume_role_arn` `(string: "")` - AWS IAM role ARN to assume for Route53 operations.
```

##### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl                                        \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ${VAULT_TOKEN}"  \
    --request DELETE                          \
    ${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/pki-external-ca/config/dns/aws-route53/production
```

#### List AWS Route53 configurations

| Method | Path                                              |
|:-------|:--------------------------------------------------|
| `LIST` | `/{plugin_mount_path}/config/dns/aws-route53`     |

##### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl                                        \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ${VAULT_TOKEN}"  \
    --request LIST                            \
    ${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/pki-external-ca/config/dns/aws-route53
```

##### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "keys": ["production", "staging", "development"]
  }
}
```

### Azure DNS provider

Configure Azure DNS as a DNS provider for DNS-01 ACME challenges.

#### Create/update Azure DNS configuration

| Method | Path                                                  |
|:-------|:------------------------------------------------------|
| `POST` | `/{plugin_mount_path}/config/dns/azure-dns/:name`     |

##### Parameters

> - `name` `(string: <required>)` - Unique name for this DNS provider configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `name` `(string: <required>)` - Unique name for the DNS provider configuration.
```

> - `identifiers` `(array<string>: <required>)` - List of DNS identifiers (domain names) this provider can manage. Supports wildcard patterns with leftmost asterisk (e.g., `*.example.com`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `identifiers` `(array<string>: <required>)` - List of DNS identifiers (domain names) the provider can manage. Supports wildcard patterns with leftmost asterisk (e.g., `*.example.com`).
```

> - `zone_name` `(string: "")` - Azure DNS zone name. Optional.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `zone_name` `(string: "")` - Azure DNS zone name.
```

> - `client_id` `(string: "")` - Azure service principal client ID. Optional if using managed identity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `client_id` `(string: "")` - Azure service principal client ID.
  Optional for managed identities.
```

> - `client_secret` `(string: "")` - Azure service principal client secret. Optional if using managed identity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `client_secret` `(string: "")` - Azure service principal client secret.
  Optional for managed identities.
```

> - `tenant_id` `(string: "")` - Azure tenant ID. Optional if using managed identity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `tenant_id` `(string: "")` - Azure tenant ID. Optional for managed identities.
```

> - `subscription_id` `(string: "")` - Azure subscription ID. Optional if using managed identity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `subscription_id` `(string: "")` - Azure subscription ID. Optional for managed identities.
```

> - `resource_group_name` `(string: "")` - Azure resource group name containing the DNS zone. Optional.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `resource_group_name` `(string: "")` - Azure resource group name containing the DNS zone.
```

```shell-session
$ curl                                        \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ${VAULT_TOKEN}"  \
    --request DELETE                          \
    ${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/pki-external-ca/config/dns/azure-dns/production
```

#### List Azure DNS configurations

| Method | Path                                          |
|:-------|:----------------------------------------------|
| `LIST` | `/{plugin_mount_path}/config/dns/azure-dns`   |

##### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl                                        \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ${VAULT_TOKEN}"  \
    --request LIST                            \
    ${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/pki-external-ca/config/dns/azure-dns
```

##### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "keys": ["production", "staging"]
  }
}
```

### Google Cloud DNS provider

Configure Google Cloud DNS as a DNS provider for DNS-01 ACME challenges.

#### Create/update Google Cloud DNS configuration

| Method | Path                                                          |
|:-------|:--------------------------------------------------------------|
| `POST` | `/{plugin_mount_path}/config/dns/google-cloud-dns/:name`      |

##### Parameters

> - `name` `(string: <required>)` - Unique name for this DNS provider configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `name` `(string: <required>)` - Unique name for the DNS provider configuration.
```

> - `identifiers` `(array<string>: <required>)` - List of DNS identifiers (domain names) this provider can manage. Supports wildcard patterns with leftmost asterisk (e.g., `*.example.com`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `identifiers` `(array<string>: <required>)` - List of DNS identifiers (domain names) the provider can manage. Supports wildcard patterns with leftmost asterisk (e.g., `*.example.com`).
```

> - `credentials` `(string: "")` - GCP service account credentials as JSON content. Optional if using application default credentials or workload identity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `credentials` `(string: "")` - GCP service account credentials as a
  JSON object. Credentials are optional if you use application default
  credentials or workload identity.
```

> - `project` `(string: "")` - GCP project name. Optional.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `project` `(string: "")` - GCP project name.
```

> - `zone_name` `(string: "")` - GCP DNS zone name. Optional.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `zone_name` `(string: "")` - GCP DNS zone name.
```

> - `impersonate_service_account` `(string: "")` - Service account email to impersonate. Optional.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `impersonate_service_account` `(string: "")` - Service account email to impersonate.
```

> - `ttl` `(duration: "10s")` - TTL for DNS TXT records used in DNS-01 challenges. Defaults to 10 seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ttl` `(duration: "10s")` - TTL for DNS TXT records used in DNS-01 challenges.
```

##### Sample payload

```json
{
  "identifiers": ["*.example.com", "example.com"],

>   "credentials": "{\"type\":\"service_account\",\"project_id\":\"my-project\",\"private_key_id\":\"key123\",\"private_key\":\"-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\\n...\\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\\n\",\"client_email\":\"vault@my-project.iam.gserviceaccount.com\"}",

Reviewer: Can we use single quotes and actual line breaks (instead of `\\n`) to make this easier to scan/parse? Or would that parse properly as a request?

Author: It  wouldn't parse I believe. We can probably just use a place holder value here saying to include the contents of the file instead of being this explicit

Author: Tweaked to remove the escaped content with "<GCP service account file contents>" instead

    --header "X-Vault-Token: ${VAULT_TOKEN}"  \
    --request DELETE                          \
    ${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/pki-external-ca/config/dns/google-cloud-dns/production
```

#### List Google Cloud DNS configurations

| Method | Path                                                  |
|:-------|:------------------------------------------------------|
| `LIST` | `/{plugin_mount_path}/config/dns/google-cloud-dns`    |

##### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl                                        \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ${VAULT_TOKEN}"  \
    --request LIST                            \
    ${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/pki-external-ca/config/dns/google-cloud-dns
```

##### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "keys": ["production", "staging"]
  }
}
```

### RFC2136 DNS provider

Configure RFC2136 (Dynamic DNS Update) as a DNS provider for DNS-01 ACME challenges. RFC2136 enables dynamic DNS updates using TSIG authentication.

#### Create/update RFC2136 configuration

| Method | Path                                              |
|:-------|:--------------------------------------------------|
| `POST` | `/{plugin_mount_path}/config/dns/rfc2136/:name`   |

##### Parameters

> - `name` `(string: <required>)` - Unique name for this DNS provider configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `name` `(string: <required>)` - Unique name for the DNS provider configuration.
```

> - `identifiers` `(array<string>: <required>)` - List of DNS identifiers (domain names) this provider can manage. Supports wildcard patterns with leftmost asterisk (e.g., `*.example.com`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `identifiers` `(array<string>: <required>)` - List of DNS identifiers (domain names) the provider can manage. Supports wildcard patterns with leftmost asterisk (e.g., `*.example.com`).
```

|:---------|:--------------------------------------------------|
| `DELETE` | `/{plugin_mount_path}/config/dns/rfc2136/:name`   |

##### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` - Name of the DNS provider configuration to delete.

##### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl                                        \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ${VAULT_TOKEN}"  \
    --request DELETE                          \
    ${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/pki-external-ca/config/dns/rfc2136/internal-dns
```

#### List RFC2136 configurations

| Method | Path                                      |
|:-------|:------------------------------------------|
| `LIST` | `/{plugin_mount_path}/config/dns/rfc2136` |

##### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl                                        \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ${VAULT_TOKEN}"  \
    --request LIST                            \
    ${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/pki-external-ca/config/dns/rfc2136
```

##### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "keys": ["internal-dns", "backup-dns"]
  }
}
```

## DNS provider testing

### Test DNS provider workflow

Test a DNS provider configuration by creating a test TXT record and optionally cleaning it up.

> This endpoint validates that the DNS provider credentials and configuration are correct

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The testing endpoint validates that the DNS provider credentials and configuration are correct
```

before using them in production certificate workflows.

| Method | Path                                     |
|:-------|:-----------------------------------------|
| `POST` | `/{plugin_mount_path}/dns/test/workflow` |

#### Parameters

- `identifier` `(string: <required>)` - The DNS identifier (domain name) to test with. Must be a domain
that the DNS provider configuration is authorized to manage.

- `provider_type` `(string: <required>)` - The DNS provider type. Must be one of:
  - `aws-route53` - AWS Route53
  - `azure-dns` - Azure DNS
  - `google-cloud-dns` - Google Cloud DNS
  - `rfc2136` - RFC2136 (Dynamic DNS Update)

- `provider_name` `(string: <required>)` - The name of the DNS provider configuration to test.

- `omit_cleanup` `(bool: false)` - If `true`, skip cleanup of the test DNS record. Useful for manual
validation that the record was created. If cleanup is omitted, you must manually delete the record or

> re-run the test without this flag to clean it up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `omit_cleanup` `(bool: false)` - If `true`, skip cleanup of the test
  DNS record. Skipping cleanup is useful for manually validating record
  creation. If you skip automatic cleanup, you must manually delete the
  record or re-run the test with `omit_cleanup` set to `false` to clean
  it up.
```
Style correction: write in active voice

### Mark challenge as fulfilled

> Tell this Vault that a challenge is fulfilled and ready for validation by the ACME server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tell Vault that a challenge is fulfilled and ready for validation by the ACME server.
```
